we have our Flyers printed on trade
we've gotten our landscaping our windows
we would buy a lot of our supplies for
one thing on trade we get dumpsters on
trade lines pool supplies we've had our
uniforms penetrate all of our vehicle
maintenance is done on trade our logos
for our shirts wear business cards
brochures everything it saved us a lot
of cash these small business owners have
found I'm not so new but not much talked
about way to grow their companies
borrowing is the exchange of products
and services without the use of care
they've all signed up with barter
exchanges which are helping them boost
their businesses without dipping into
their company's cash the number one
reason to join the trade exchanges new
business a barter company brings you
customers that you didn't have the
number two reason to join the trade
exchange who's new business and I'll bet
you can guess what the number three
reason is Tom McDowell is the executive
director of the National Association of
trade exchanges we provide an extra
marketing tool that a lot of small
businesses don't have available as we
introduce them to a whole new network of
other businesses that whenever possible
do business with each other here's how
it works for a small fee businesses join
a trade exchange once they provide a
product or a service for another member
they receive a credit in their barter
bank account
they can then use to buy something from
someone else in the group a lot of that
stuff that we would normally pay cash
for we have found ways to spend it on
trade Jayson iris and Sam donello owners
of naturalistic landscapes signed up
with the barter company trade first in
2006 today they do about 10% of their
business as part of a trade the
materials for this job were purchased on
trade and the total is about six
thousand dollars these jobs both save
the owners cash and help bring in new
paying customers this house that we're
doing on treat today we will put up a
nice sign a nice naturalistic landscape
sign with our phone number on it and
then any neighbor that he has here will
see the sign and call us we got four
referrals from one trade job for cash
referrals Chuck and Shannon lerton
started their cleaning business Michigan
office clean two years ago they found
out about trade exchanges during a
networking event Chuck just came home
and told me about it and I was very
leery about it I'm like it sounds too
good to be true and the more research we
did about trade first the better at
seeing the lerton say they would have
had a much harder time finding business
in the beginning if they hadn't signed
up with the exchange trade is very
important to our business I mean when we
started out trade is actually how we
started our business we started our
business we didn't have any clients
Chuck found trade and that's how we got
our first client and then from there it
just built to have from referrals the
exchange doesn't just help out their
business it helps out their personal
lives as well they put about 70% of
their credit into growing their company
the other 30 they used for things at
home the roses are perfect the way they
are now all nicely come in a nice color
like hiring naturalistic
escapes to review the outside of their
house the lurch ins have built a steady
stream of trade business Jay Bochy used
credits he earned cutting peoples hair
to hire the lurch ins to clean his
upscale salon I know that if I need a
new product or service on trade that I'm
going to get quality that I'm going to
get somebody that's in the same game
that I'm in and it's great to deal with
it's almost like you know them ahead of
time and you know their business
practice ahead of time and that's a lot
of fun and Nicolas Ritz trades meals at
his restaurants to earn credits that he
spends on the cleaning service as well
amongst other things the first purchase
I ever did was the awning actually which
was a fifteen thousand dollar purchase
that for any business would be tough to
do without some kind of assistance these
business owners say the possibilities of
things to trade that your company needs
are endless it's just a matter of being
creative when you think about how much
you spend just in your day to day
operations that you pay for now with
additional sales of your own particular
product or service partners willing a
great asset and a great tool for small
businesses to work